People love simple games that are fun and short. Everyone loves having fun in a short time. We have decided to create an app with a point-based game that publicly posts a user's highest score if that score is higher than the all-time record. The game will be mobile-oriented and use a web service to store the highest score. Users will download the game and play it client-side. Once the user finishes the game, the app will tell them how close their score is to the all-time record. If the user earns a score that is higher than the current all-time record, the app will automatically upload the score to the web server.
The game will be called MergeSplit, and the design will be tile-based. Players will start with an 8x8 grid of tiles and the player's objective is to merge the tiles into a single tile. Players can merge 4 tiles to make 1 tile that is the size of four combined tiles. The tile color will vary. To merge, ¾ of the tiles must be the same color, and all tiles must be the same size. Players can strategically merge and split tiles to make them of the same color.
The game will be 2D, as that design is easy and enjoyable to play. The game will be simplistic with minimal tutorial or instructions. Colors and sounds will be the primary sensory inputs. Additionally, the dopamine feedback cycles should be short because the player performs an action and gets a reward in the span of a few seconds, and repeats. On the contrary, strategic games that require long-term critical thinking are also a very enjoyable form of game. Nevertheless, we hope that our game will be popular because it will be short, simple, and fun.
The target demographic for this app will be people who enjoy solving puzzles, but the app is also very accessible to the common person. We will try to minimize words and make the game as intuitive as possible. The name of the game (MergeSplit) is even self-explanatory.
This game is unique. Most games lean either towards strategy or impulse-driven gameplay. This game finds the balance between both.


Team members: Caleb Albrecht, Haim Hong, Jacob Westra, Nathanael Kastner, Papa Kwesi Sterlin
